# Digital MRV Taskforce Working Area

This section of the TTF is used to create common artifacts for the Digital Measurement Reporting and Verification taskforce, as part of the Voluntary Ecological Markets workgroup.

While the TTF is great at defining and establishing a standard for a single token, it does not allow for the documentation of a business process that utilizes multiple tokens defined in the TTF and
place them in context for how they are used and related to one another. In this section we will define the token schemas that are used in the dMRV process and then define the business process that uses them.

This taskforce is now using the same publication pattern and tools that other bodies use to define their standards:

- An overview document that describes the business process and is targeted at a general audience.
- A technical specification that provides the details behind the business process and is targeted at a technical audience.

The overview document is written using Microsoft Word or Google Docs and the technical specification is written using the [Bikeshed](https://tabatkins.github.io/bikeshed/) tool and is published using the [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) service.

## NEW - dMRV Technical Specification

[Current v3.0 Spec](https://interworkalliance.github.io/TokenTaxonomyFramework/dmrv/spec/index.html)
[Previous V2 Spec](https://interworkalliance.github.io/TokenTaxonomyFramework/dmrv/spec/v2/index.html)

## dMRV Token Schemas

The dMRV taskforce is defining token schemas initially with Protocol Buffers and then converting them to Json and documenting them using Bikeshed.  The token and one contract, Verification Contract, schemas are defined in
the [sustainability.proto](protos/sustainability.proto) file with common definitions in the [commmon.proto](protos/common.proto) file and [dmrv.proto](protos/dmrv.proto).

## Token Instance Data Samples

The [samples](spec/samples) directory contains sample data for the tokens defined in the [sustainability.proto](protos/sustainability.proto) file.  The samples are in JSON format and are used to test the token schemas and to provide examples of how the tokens are used.

## OpenAPI Specification

The [spec/openapi-schema.json](spec/openapi-schema.json) file contains the OpenAPI specification for the dMRV token schemas. This file is generated by tools like swagger to generate documentation and client code.

There is a dotnet core OpenAPI project in [../tools/DmrvApi](../tools/DmrvApi) that can be used to generate Json instances found in the [samples](samples) directory.  This requires that you build the protocol buffers using protoc found in the [buildMrvModel.sh](protos/buildMrvModel.sh) script.

## MRV Extensions

The dMRV Framework includes contextual extensions, to extend the data types defined in the specification for specific Quality Standards.

The [extensions](./extensions/readme.md) provides detail about using extensions.
